Now let's look at how to set up inbound and outbound gateways for Kafka.
Kafka,
inbound gateways are implemented in Spring integration
using the KafkaInboundGateway class.
You define a KafkaInboundGateway with a RequestChannel that
handles the message and a ReplyChannel.
Kafka Outbound Gateways are implemented using the KafkaProducerMessageHandler,
which we saw in the last section.
The difference is that instead of using a KafkaTemplate,
we're going to use a ReplyingKafkaTemplate.
To create an inbound gateway,
we're going to create a KafkaTemplate exactly as we did when
creating the outbound channel adapter, which I don't show in the slide,
but we'll look at it when we review the code.
Next,
we create a KafkaMessageListenerContainer that listens on the
addressTopic and sets the GroupId to addressGroup.
Again,
the GroupId is used by consumers that want to handle the same set of messages.
Finally,
we create the KafkaInboundGateway with the
KafkaMessageListenerContainer and the KafkaTemplate wired into it.
The KafkaTemplate is used to send a response back to the caller,
so we set its DefaultTopic to our ReplyTopic.
Then we create a new KafkaInboundGateway,
passing it the container and the template,
and then we set the RequestChannel that will handle the incoming message,
and the ReplyChannel, to which it will publish its reply.
We add a 30 second timeout so that if the handler does not reply in 30 seconds,
we'll abandon the transaction.
The outbound gateway is a little more complicated,
so I broke it into three slides.
First,
the KafkaMessageListenerContainer receives a ConsumerFactory that
Spring creates for us when it sees Kafka in our class path and
listens for messages on the ReplyChannel.
This will handle the response that we received from the inbound gateway.
Next, the ReplyingKafkaTemplate is similar to the KafkaTemplate,
but it uses the KafkaMessageListenerContainer for a
reply once it sends its message.
The ProducerFactory, which isn't shown, defines the broker address to connect to,
as well as the key and value serializers that we've seen previously.
Finally,
the KafkaProducerMessageHandler is the being that sends
messages to Kafka and awaits a reply.
It creates a new KafkaProducerMessageHandler that uses the
ReplyingKafkaTemplate and sets the topic and the MessageKey,
which again is the partition in the topic to which to publish the message.
The example for this section is the same as we've seen in the other sections.
The ReservationListener receives a reservation,
but needs the user's address to complete the reservation.
In this case,
it uses a KafkaProducerMessageHandler with a
ReplyingKafkaTemplate to publish a message to the Kafka broker,
which will be routed to the addressTopic.
The KafkaInboundGateway will receive the message,
invoke the address service through its RequestChannel,
and published the response back to Kafka.
The response will be received by the ReplyingKafkaTemplate and
delivered back to the bazReservationListener.
Let's look at the code and see this in action.
Let's start with the KafkaOutboundGateway config,
which defines the components we need to send an address
request back to the baz reservation publisher.
First we create a new channel to which will publish our address requests,
and then we create a KafkaMessageListenerContainer.
This container is responsible for listening for the
response from the inbound gateway.
We specify that it should listen for requests from the addressReplyTopic,
and we set its GroupId to addressGroup.
We create a ProducerFactory that specifies the
broker address we want to connect to,
as well as we define that we want to use string serializers
to serialize both message keys and values.
Next we create a ReplyingKafkaTemplate, which is used to send a message to Kafka,
and wait for a response.
it uses the ProducerFactory that we created to connect to the broker,
and it uses the container to listen on the ReplyTopic.
Then we create a KafkaProducerMessageHandler that sends messages to Kafka.
Because we use the replaying KafkaTemplate,
it will wait for a response and return that to it's caller.
We configure that we want to publish our messages to the
address key partition in the addressTopic.
Finally,
we create a messaging gateway that publishes messages to the bazAddressChannel,
which will be directed to our KafkaProducerMessageHandler.
We update the bazReservationListener to wire in the addressGateway,
and then request the address with the reservation's Id and log it.
Looking now at the inbound gateway,
the bazAddressConfig creates an addressChannel,
to which address requests will be published,
and an addressReplyChannel, to which replies will be sent.
We create a new ProducerFactory that connects to the specified broker
address and uses the string serializer for keys and values.
And then we create a KafkaTemplate that uses that ProducerFactory.
We create a KafkaMessageListenerContainer and configure
it to listen to the addressTopic,
and then we create a KafkaInboundGateway that uses the
KafkaMessageListenerChannel to receive messages,
and the KafkaTemplate to send the reply.
We set the RequestChannel,
which will deliver messages to the address service and the ReplyChannel.
We set a 30 second timeout for the RequestChannel to complete.
Finally,
the address service is a Spring service with a
ServiceActivater that listens for messages on the
addressChannel and simply returns this as my address.
So let's run our applications and review the logs.
In the bazReservationPublisherApplicationLogs, we can see that we published
6 reservations and that we receive requests for addresses for each user.
And in the KafkaExampleApplicationLogs, we can see that we receive 6
reservations, and then we receive. this is my address responses to our
address lookup calls. In this section, we reviewed how Spring integration
works with Apache Kafka.
We saw how the Kafka message source was used in the
role of an inbound channel adapter,
and the KafkaInboundGateway provided inbound gateway support.
Then we saw that the KafkaProducerMessageHandler served the role of both
the outbound channel adapter and the outbound gateway,
with the difference being the type of KafkaTemplate that's used, a standard
KafkaTemplate in the case of an outbound channel adapter and a
ReplyingKafkaTemplate in the case of an outbound gateway. Next up, we're going to wrap up this module and review what we learned.